# Codebook for Lab5

## Introduction

This Codebook provides a description of the dataset "tidy_dataset.csv" generated by the `run_analysis.R` script in this repository.  

This R script prepares a tidy dataset that has been generated from the "Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set". The UCI dataset was built from the recordings of 30 subjects performing activities of daily living (ADL) while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors. A full description is available at the source:

  *[http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones]

## Transformations

The run_analysis.R file performs the following transformations on the original UCI dataset to produce a tidy dataset "tidy_dataset.csv":

  * Reads the original files from the UCI database
  * Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
  * Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
  * Descriptive activity names have been applied to the activities in the data set.
  * Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.  
  * Determines the average of each variable for each activity and subject. 

## tidy_dataset.csv variable description

The final dataset contains 68 variables with 180 observations. Each observation represents the average measurement for a subject and activity pair.  

The following columns are provided:

 [1] "SubjectID" - A numeric identifier (1-30) of the subject who carried out the experiment.

 [2] "ActivityName" - An activity name with the following possible values: WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING.

The following columns relate to measurements derived from the UCI Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set.  Please note that each measurements relates to the average for that measurement for each subject/activity pair within the study.  

Please refer the codebook with the original dataset for further detail on each of these different measurements [http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones].  

Time domain measurements:  
 [3] "tBody-Acceleration-mean()-X"                
 [4] "tBody-Acceleration-mean()-Y"                
 [5] "tBody-Acceleration-mean()-Z"                
 [6] "tBody-Acceleration-std()-X"                 
 [7] "tBody-Acceleration-std()-Y"                 
 [8] "tBody-Acceleration-std()-Z"                 
 [9] "tGravity-Acceleration-mean()-X"             
[10] "tGravity-Acceleration-mean()-Y"             
[11] "tGravity-Acceleration-mean()-Z"             
[12] "tGravity-Acceleration-std()-X"              
[13] "tGravity-Acceleration-std()-Y"              
[14] "tGravity-Acceleration-std()-Z"              
[15] "tBody-AccelerationJerk-mean()-X"            
[16] "tBody-AccelerationJerk-mean()-Y"            
[17] "tBody-AccelerationJerk-mean()-Z"            
[18] "tBody-AccelerationJerk-std()-X"             
[19] "tBody-AccelerationJerk-std()-Y"             
[20] "tBody-AccelerationJerk-std()-Z"             
[21] "tBodyGyro-mean()-X"                         
[22] "tBodyGyro-mean()-Y"                         
[23] "tBodyGyro-mean()-Z"                         
[24] "tBodyGyro-std()-X"                          
[25] "tBodyGyro-std()-Y"                          
[26] "tBodyGyro-std()-Z"                          
[27] "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X"                     
[28] "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y"                     
[29] "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z"                     
[30] "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X"                      
[31] "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y"                      
[32] "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z"                      
[33] "tBody-Acceleration-Magnitude-mean()"        
[34] "tBody-Acceleration-Magnitude-std()"         
[35] "tGravity-Acceleration-Magnitude-mean()"     
[36] "tGravity-Acceleration-Magnitude-std()"      
[37] "tBody-AccelerationJerk-Magnitude-mean()"    
[38] "tBody-AccelerationJerk-Magnitude-std()"     
[39] "tBodyGyro-Magnitude-mean()"                 
[40] "tBodyGyro-Magnitude-std()"                  
[41] "tBodyGyroJerk-Magnitude-mean()"             
[42] "tBodyGyroJerk-Magnitude-std()"      

Frequency domain measurements:        
[43] "fBody-Acceleration-mean()-X"                
[44] "fBody-Acceleration-mean()-Y"                
[45] "fBody-Acceleration-mean()-Z"                
[46] "fBody-Acceleration-std()-X"                 
[47] "fBody-Acceleration-std()-Y"                 
[48] "fBody-Acceleration-std()-Z"                 
[49] "fBody-AccelerationJerk-mean()-X"            
[50] "fBody-AccelerationJerk-mean()-Y"            
[51] "fBody-AccelerationJerk-mean()-Z"            
[52] "fBody-AccelerationJerk-std()-X"             
[53] "fBody-AccelerationJerk-std()-Y"             
[54] "fBody-AccelerationJerk-std()-Z"             
[55] "fBodyGyro-mean()-X"                         
[56] "fBodyGyro-mean()-Y"                         
[57] "fBodyGyro-mean()-Z"                         
[58] "fBodyGyro-std()-X"                          
[59] "fBodyGyro-std()-Y"                          
[60] "fBodyGyro-std()-Z"                          
[61] "fBody-Acceleration-Magnitude-mean()"        
[62] "fBody-Acceleration-Magnitude-std()"         
[63] "fBodyBody-AccelerationJerk-Magnitude-mean()"      
[64] "fBodyBody-AccelerationJerk-Magnitude-std()"       
[65] "fBodyBodyGyro-Magnitude-mean()"             
[66] "fBodyBodyGyro-Magnitude-std()"              
[67] "fBodyBodyGyroJerk-Magnitude-mean()"         
[68] "fBodyBodyGyroJerk-Magnitude-std()"
